Adds a new option for transient CFs, for which data/metadata should not be persisted in the db long term. Transient CFs are not included in the manifest, and transient cf data is not included in backups/checkpoints. Transient CF data can be written and flushed like normal CF data, and version_edits are created for transient cfs, identified by a new tag in the version edit. Transient CFs can be part of an atomic group with regular CFs - in order to make this work, we manually adjustin num_remaining counts for the non-transient CFs in the atomic group before writing to manifest (otherwise this will be perceived as manifest corruption, since it looks like version edits are missing). As a result, transient cf metadata only exists in memory, and if the db crashes or is restarted, transient CF sst files will be orphaned, and will be cleaned up eventually.  Users will be able to create transient CFs and roll back to older versions of RocksDB without issue. Attempting to reopen a db with transient cfs that were previously created will fail, unless create_missing_column_families=true, in which case, a new transient cf will be created. As of now, transient CFs are not eligible for remote compaction, since the remote worker cannot open the RocksDB instance with transient CFs. We also add stress test support for transient CFs - the first db open will optionally create some number of transient CFs in addition to regular ones, and carry out db operations and verification on transient and regular CF data. Every subsequent open will open with only regular CFs; in this manner, we can ensure transient CFs do not cause any regression with regular CF operations.
